# Overview

# Extension Development

Poozle supports two types of extensions: Rest and GraphQL. A extension takes the form of a Docker image which follows the [Poozle specification](../understanding_poozle/protocol.md).

To build a new extension in Typescript, we provide templates so you don't need to start everything from scratch.

**Note: you are not required to maintain the extensions you create.** The goal is that the Extension core team and the community help maintain the extension.

Poozle provides Extension Development Kit (EDK) to help you build extensions.

### Typescript Extension-Development Kit \(EDK\)

You can build a extension very quickly in Typescript with the Poozle EDK, which generates 75% of the code required for you.

## The Extension specification

Before building a new extension, review [Poozle's data protocol specification](../understanding_poozle/protocol.md).

## Adding a new extension

### Requirements

To add a new extension you need to:

1. Implement & Package your extension in an Poozle Protocol compliant Docker image
2. Document how to build & test your extension
3. Publish the Docker image containing the extension

Each requirement has a subsection below.

### 1. Implement & package the extension

If you are building a extension , then you're in luck! We provide autogenerated templates to get you started quickly:

#### Creating a extension from a template

Run the interactive generator:

```text
cd engine-integrations/extension-templates/generator
yarn
yarn generate
```

and choose the relevant template by using the arrow keys. This will generate a new extension in the `engine-integrations/extensions/<your-extension>` directory.

Search the generated directory for "TODO"s and follow them to implement your extension.

### 2. Document building

Replace the README with more relevant extension based information on how the check and from where the schema's are pulled from.

### 3. Publish the extension

Typically this will be handled as part of code review by an Poozler. There is a section below on what steps are needed for publishing a extension and will mostly be used by Poozle employees publishing the extension.

## Publishing a extension

Once you've finished iterating on the changes to a extension as specified in its `README.md`, follow these instructions to ship the new version of the extension with Poozle out of the box.

1. Bump the version in the `Dockerfile` of the extension \(`LABEL io.poozle.version=X.X.X`\).
2. Submit a PR containing the changes you made.
3. One of Poozle maintainers will review the change and publish the new version of the extension to Docker hub.
4. The new version of the extension is now available for everyone who uses it. Thank you!
